# Dissociated-Press

### 0. Introduction
The **Dissociated Press** algorithm was originally described in a 1972 memo from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. It generates random nonsense text using words from another text. The algorithm’s name is a pun on the American news agency **Associated Press**. In this project, you will write a version of the Dissociated Press algorithm in Python, and test it on one or two examples.

### 1. Theory
Our version of Dissociated Press starts by printing a random number of words from a source text. It next searches the source text for another occurrence of the last word it printed so far. It picks one of the occurrences at random, and goes on printing the text following the chosen occurrence. It then repeats the process, until it finds a word for which there are no other occurrences in the source text. The resulting text often seems correct grammatically, but takes some effort by the reader to recognize as nonsense. Because the text is generated at random, its words may be connected in a humorous way.

For example, the following is a paragraph from *Free as in Freedom* software advocate Richard M. Stallman’s book Free as in Freedom. To make the algorithm easier to implement, upper-case letters have been changed to lower-case letters, and most punctuation has been removed.

> it is a testament to the original computer hackers prodigious skill that later programmers including richard m stallman aspired to wear the same hacker mantle. by the mid to late 1970s the term hacker had acquired elite connotations. in a general sense a computer hacker was any person who wrote software code for the sake of writing software code. in the particular sense, however it was a testament to programming skill. like the term artist the meaning carried tribal overtones. to describe a fellow programmer as hacker was a sign of respect. to describe oneself as a hacker was a sign of immense personal confidence. either way the original looseness of the computer hacker appellation diminished as computers became more common.

When the Dissociated Press algorithm is run on this text, it produces the following nonsense result.

> it is a testament to the original looseness of immense personal confidence. either way the original computer hacker was any person who wrote software code. in the particular sense, however it is a hacker was a testament to the term artist the sake of writing software code for the original computer hackers prodigious skill that later programmers including richard m stallman aspired to programming skill. like the same hacker mantle. by the mid to late 1970s the term hacker had acquired elite connotations. in a general sense a computer hacker had acquired elite connotations. in a general sense a computer hacker mantle. by the mid to late 1970s the particular sense, however it was a testament to describe a fellow programmer as hacker was a sign of immense personal confidence. either way the original looseness of immense personal confidence. either way the original looseness of the computer hacker was any person who wrote software code for the sake of writing software code for the sake of writing software code. in a sign of respect. to describe a fellow programmer as hacker appellation diminished as computers became more common.

In this example, the algorithm started copying words 'it is a testament to the original' until it encountered the word ' original'. At that point it jumped to a later point in the text, 'original looseness of' and copied words until it encountered 'of.' Then it jumped to an earlier point, 'of immense personal confidence,' and went on copying from there, etc. It kept going in this way, until it encountered the word 'common', and tried to make a random jump to some point in the text starting with that word. However, there is no such point in the text, so the algorithm stopped. There are two problems with implementing this algorithm. First, we must find a way to generate random integers. Second, we must avoid searching text when the algorithm makes random jumps.

**Random integers**. No algorithm can generate truly random integers, but it can generate _pseudo-random_ integers that seem random, even though they’re not. Python has its own random number generator, but for this project, you must implement your own.
The _Park-Miller algorithm_ (named for its inventors) is a simple way to generate a sequence of pseudo-random integers. It works like this. Let n0 be an integer called the seed. The seed is the first term of the sequence, and it must be between 1 and 2^31 − 2. Starting from the seed, later terms n1, n2, etc., are produced from previous terms by the following recursive equation.

<p style = "text-align: center;">n_j = (7^5 * n_j−1) % (2^31 − 1)</p>
                                            
Here 7^5 is 16807, and 2^31 is 2147483648. The operator ∗ multiplies two integers, and the operator % returns the remainder after dividing one integer by another. We always get the same sequence of integers for a given seed. For example, if we start with the seed 101, then we get a sequence whose first few terms are 1697507, 612712738, 678900201, 695061696, 1738368639, 246698238, 1613847356, and 1214050682. Some of these integers are large,
but we can make them smaller by using the % operator again. If _n_ is an integer from the sequence, then _n_ % _m_ returns an integer between 0 and _m_ − 1. For example, if we need a pseudo-random integer from 0 to 9, then we write n % 10.

**Efficient jumps**. We can represent the original text as a list of words, where each word is a string. We can then use a Python dictionary to keep from having to search the list when the algorithm makes a random jump. The dictionary’s keys are strings (words) from the list, and the values associated with the keys are lists of lists. Each inner list contains all the words that follow the key. In the example text shown above, the key 'of' in the dictionary will have the following list of lists as its value. The three dots (...) mean that elements are omitted so the example will fit on a page.

> [["writing", "software", "code.", "in" ...], ["respect.", "to", "describe", "oneself" ...], ["immense", "personal", "confidence.", "either" ...]]

Now suppose the algorithm has just copied the word 'of' and decides to make a random jump. It can do that by getting the list shown above from the dictionary, choosing one of its inner lists at random, and then copying words from the chosen list, instead of the words that would ordinarily follow 'of.'
